\author{Charles Pittman}
\date{\today}
\title{Memristors}

\documentclass[12pt]{article}

\begin{document}
\maketitle

%\begin{abstract}
%This is the paper's abstract \ldots
%\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}
Electronics textbooks list three passive components: resistors,
capacitors, and inductors.  Resistors relate voltage to current,
capacitors relate voltage to charge, and inductors relate charge to
magnetic flux.  Noting the symmetry (no component relating magnetic
flux to current), in 1971 Leon Chua published a mathematical
proof\cite{chua1971} that such a device should be possible.

As a function of time, the device gives a flux-charge relationship
similar to the current-voltage relationship of a resistor (i.e. its
resistance changes according to the charge passed through it).  The
device remembers it's history, which is where the term ``memristor''
comes from.  Active devices simulating the behavior had existed, but
the first passive version came from HP 37 years
later.\cite{strukov2008missing}

HP's device consisted of two layers of titanium dioxide
($\mathrm{TiO_2}$), a semiconductor, sandwiched between platinum
plates with some oxygen atoms removed from one of the layers to make
it conductive ($\mathrm{TiO_{2-x}}$).  Voltage applied to the platinum
plates would expand or contract the $\mathrm{TiO_{2-x}}$ layer,
changing the device's conductivity\cite{williams2008we} (a switch,
essentially).

\section{Applications}

\subsection{Memory}\label{memory}
The device HP created was born out of a research group tasked with
figuring out what to do when transistors could be shrunk no
further\cite{williams2008we}.  As component sizes shrink aligning
masks during the die creation becomes more difficult and probability
of surface defects increase, together reducing
yield\cite{snider2008molecular}.  The team realized that redundancy
could be used to combat the reduced yield.  Inspired by another HP
project, the Teramac\cite{heath1998} massively-parallel computer, the
cross-board latch would be used: multiple switches are placed between
an input and output line such that any could trigger a connection.
Forming an array of these latches created a storage device.

\subsection{Logic}\label{logic}
The extension from storage to logic is straightforward.

\subsection{Artificial Intelligence}\label{ai}

\bibliographystyle{abbrv}
\bibliography{main}

\end{document}
This is never printed
